


Short Answer


1.       what is Data?
    data is information that has been translated into a form that is efficient for movement or processing.its the raw facts.



2.       what is Information?
 Information is knowledge communicated or received concerning a particular fact or circumstance.
 Information is expressed either as the content of a message or through direct or indirect observation.


3.      what is Database(DB)?
A database is information that is set up for easy access, management and updating.
a database is an organized collection of data stored and accessed electronically.

 
4.      What is the Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?

A relational database management system (RDBMS) is a collection of programs and
capabilities that enable IT teams and 
others to create, update, administer and otherwise interact with a relational database.

5.      Define the importance of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?

A relational database's main benefit is the ability to connect data from different tables to create useful information.

6.  As we all know that there are Two types of Database. Relational Database(SQL) AND 
Non-Relational DB(NO sql). what is the difference between them.


SQL databases are relational, NoSQL databases are non-relational.
SQL databases use structured query language and have a predefined schema. 
NoSQL databases have dynamic schemas for unstructured data.
SQL databases are vertically scalable, while NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable.
SQL databases are table-based, while NoSQL databases are document, key-value, graph, or wide-column stores.
SQL databases are better for multi-row transactions, while NoSQL is better for unstructured data like documents or JSON



7. 	List examples of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS)?

Some examples of specific systems that use RDBMS include IBM, Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQLServer and PostgreSQL.


8.       List examples of Non-Reletional DB(NSQL)

          NoSQL or non-relational databases examples: MongoDB, Apache Cassandra, Redis, Couchbase and Apache HBase.

9.       Define and Describe is Structured Query Language(SQL)?

      Structured Query Language (SQL) is a standardized programming language that is used to manage relational databases and 
perform various operations on the data in them.

10.       List and Describe each of the different subsets of SQL(Mean DDL, DML, DCL, TCL)?

              DDL- data definition language

                 E.g. Create, alter, drop
             
             
             DML- data manipulation language

                E.g. Insert, update, delete, select

              DCL- data control language

                E.g. Grant, revoke

              TCL- transaction control language

               E.g. Commit, Rollback, Begin transaction




11.      what is table in Database(DB)?

      Tables are database objects that contain all the data in a database
      A table is an object inside a database.

12.     what is column and Row(tuples) in table?
      A row can be defined as an order in which objects are placed alongside or horizontally. 
      A column can be defined as a vertical division of objects on the basis of category.



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 \
